Please answer the below core-java Questions:


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans: A Java Development Kit (JDK) is a program development environment for writing Java applets and applications. It consists of a runtime environment that of the operating system layer as well as the tools and programming that developers need to compile, debug, and run applets and applications written in the Java language.
components list:
Appletviewer – this tool can be used to run and debug Java applets without a web browser.
extcheck – a utility that detects JAR file conflicts.
idlj – the IDL-to-Java compiler. This utility generates Java bindings from a given Java IDL file.
java – the loader for Java applications. This tool is an interpreter and can interpret the class files generated by the javac compiler
javac – the Java compiler, which converts source code into Java bytecode
javadoc – the documentation generator, which automatically generates documentation from source code comments
jar – the archiver, which packages related class libraries into a single JAR file. This tool also helps manage JAR files.

What is IDE?
Ans: A Java IDE (Integrated Development Environment) is a software application which enables users to more easily write and debug Java programs.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans: NetBeans,Eclipse,IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition,Android Studio,BlueJ,jEdit,JDeveloperetc.


Explain the entire java life cycle.
Ans: 1. A Java program is written using either a Text Editor like Textpad or an IDE like Eclipse and is saved as a .java file. (Program.java)
     2. The .java file is then compiled using Java compiler and a .class file is obtained from it. (Program.class)
     3. The .class file is now portable and can be used to run this Java program in any platform.
     4. Class file (Program.class) is interpreted by the JVM installed on a particular platform. JVM is part of the JRE software.
     Example: java program--xyz.java-->java compiler--xyz.class--->java interpreter---output--->computer.

what is class?
Ans: Class is a template or blueprint from which objects are created.

What is object?
Ans: Object is an instance of a class
Example: Object is a real world entity.
         Object is a run time entity.
         Object is an entity which has state and behavior.
         Object is an instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
Ans:In computer programming, an entry point is where control is transferred from the operating system to a computer program, at which place the processor enters a program or a code fragment and execution begins.

Why main is static?
Ans:Since the main method is static Java virtual Machine can call it without creating any instance of a class which contains the main method.If main method were not declared static than JVM has to create instance of main Class and since constructor can be overloaded and can have arguments there would not be any certain and consistent way for JVM to find main method in Java.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans:
Abstract:Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods.
Abstract:Abstract class doesn't support multiple inheritance.
Interface:Interface can have only abstract methods.
Interface:nterface supports multiple inheritance.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans: Yes, but not directly, We can create the object to An Interface / Abstract class.
    As per the java specification we are not allowed to create object to interface and abstract class directly. But we can do that indirectly with the help of anonymous inner type.

what is Access Specifier?
Ans: Java Access Specifiers regulate access to classes, fields and methods in Java.These Specifiers determine whether a field or method in a class, can be used or invoked by another method in another class or sub-class. Access Specifiers can be used to restrict access. Access Specifiers are an integral part of object-oriented programming

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans: OOPS is about developing an application around its data, objects which provides the access to their properties and the possible operations in their own way.
Object
Class
Inheritance
Polymorphism
Abstraction
Encapsulation

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans:Application program interface (API) is a set of routines, protocols, and tools for building software applications. An API specifies how software components should interact. Additionally, APIs are used when programming graphical user interface (GUI) components. A good API makes it easier to develop a program by providing all the building blocks. A programmer then puts the blocks together
    java.util;
    java.util.list;
    java.util.ArrayList;
    com.twilio.Twilio;
    com.twilio.rest.api.v2010.account.Message;
    com.twilio.type.PhoneNumber;
    java.io.BufferedReader;
    java.io.FileReader;
    java.io.IOException;
    java.util.Scanner;
    java.util.Iterator;
    java.util.LinkedList;
    java.util.Scanner and so on..


Does java support multiple inheritance?
Ans: java doesn't support it. It is just to remove ambiguity, because multiple inheritance can cause ambiguity in few scenarios.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans: If a class has multiple methods having same name but different in parameters, it is known as Method Overloading.
Example: Overloading happens at compile time.

What is method overriding and when it happens?
Ans:Method overriding is used to provide the specific implementation of the method that is already provided by its super class
Example:Overriding happens at run time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans: Exception is an error event that can happen during the execution of a program and disrupts it’s normal flow. Exception can arise from different kind of situations such as wrong data entered by user, hardware failure, network connection failure etc.
Explain: try-catch: We use try-catch block for exception handling in our code. try is the start of the block and catch is at the end of try block to handle the exceptions. We can have multiple catch blocks with a try and try-catch block can be nested also. catch block requires a parameter that should be of type Exception

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans:The static keyword in java is used for memory management mainly.The static variable can be used to refer the common property of all objects.
Static variable: A static variable can be accessed directly by the class name and doesn’t need any object.
Static method: A static method can be accessed directly by the class name and doesn’t need any object


What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans:Final is a keyword or reserved word in java and can be applied to member variables, methods, class and local variables in Java. Once you make a reference final you are not allowed to change that reference and compiler will verify this and raise compilation error if you try to re-initialized final variables in java.
final used in variable: Any variable either member variable or local variable (declared inside method or block) modified by final keyword is called final variable. Final variables are often declare with static keyword in java and treated as constant.
final used in method: Final keyword in java can also be applied to methods. A java method with final keyword is called final method and it can not be overridden in sub-class. You should make a method final in java if you think it’s complete and its behavior should remain constant in sub-classes.


What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans: Final:Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable. Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
finally: Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
finalizes: Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
Ans:A constructor is a special method of a class or structure in object-oriented programming that initializes an object of that type. A constructor is an instance method that usually has the same name as the class, and can be used to set the values of the members of an object, either to default or to user-defined values.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans:this is a keyword in Java. It can be used inside the Method or constructor of Class. It(this) works as a reference to the current Object whose Method or constructor is being invoked. The this keyword can be used to refer to any member of the current object from within an instance Method or a constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java?
Ans:super is a keyword. It is used inside a sub-class method definition to call a method defined in the super class. Private methods of the super-class cannot be called. Only public and protected methods can be called by the super keyword. It is also used by class constructors to invoke constructors of its parent class.


What is JVM stand for ?
Ans: A Java virtual machine (JVM) is an abstract computing machine that enables a computer to run a Java program. There are three notions of the JVM: specification, implementation, and instance. The specification is a document that formally describes what is required of a JVM implementation.

What version of java are you using?
Ans: jdk1.8.0_121.

What is JAR stand for ?
Ans:A JAR (Java ARchive) is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files and associated metadata and resources (text, images, etc.) into one file for distribution. ... They are built on the ZIP format and typically have a .jar file extension.

What is compile time and run time?
Ans:compile: the time period in which you, the developer, are compiling your code.
run time: the time period which a user is running your piece of software.

What is heap?
Ans:A heap is a general term used for any memory that is allocated dynamically and randomly. The memory is typically allocated by the OS, with the application calling API functions to do this allocation

How java manage it's memory?
Ans:Memory management is the process of allocating new objects and removing unused objects to make space for those new object allocations. This section presents some basic memory management concepts and explains the basics about object allocation and garbage collection in the Oracle JRockit JVM. The following topics are covered.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans: String:string is basically an object that represents sequence of char values
StringBuffer:StringBuffer is synchronized i.e. thread safe. It means two threads can't call the methods of StringBuffer simultaneously
StringBuilder:StringBuilder is non-synchronized i.e. not thread safe. It means two threads can call the methods of StringBuilder simultaneously.